---
title: Romero_tori
order: 1
name: Romero Tori
lattes: http://buscatextual.cnpq.br/buscatextual/visualizacv.do?id=K4787894T6
membership: Professor
update: '2022-08-15'
photo: img/members/Romero_tori.png
orcid: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-9381-9565
---

Romero Tori is an engineer, PhD and professor at USP. He is currently Associate Professor 3 at the Escola Politécnica of the University of São Paulo (USP), where he coordinates the Research Group "Interlab - Laboratory of Interactive Technologies" and develops research in virtual and augmented reality applied to education and/or health. He is a CNPq productivity fellow in Technological Development and Innovative Extension, in the area of ​​Educational Technologies. Permanent member of the faculty of the Postgraduate Program in Design at FAU/USP. He was institutional coordinator of the technological initiation and innovation program at Centro Universitário Senac. He was president of the Special Committee on Virtual Reality of the Brazilian Computer Society-SBC (2007-2008). He was a member of the Deliberative Council of the Escola do Futuro da USP (1993-2014), He participated in the organization of several scientific events, having been, among others, General Chair of the SVR 2004 (Symposium on Virtual and Augmented Reality), Program Chair of the SVR 2007 and SBs 2005, General Vice-Chair of the SVR 2008, and Chairman of the Scientific of R & D Design 2008, co-chair of CIDI/INFODESIGN/CONGIC 2009 and chair of WEPG/SIBGRAPI 2009. Coordinated the SVR 2017 and SVR 2018 Pre-Symposia. Member of the Organizing Committee of SVR 2015, SVR 2016, SVR 2017 and SVR2018. Author of the book "Educação sem Distância" ("Education Without Distance"), 2010, and author / co-author of several books and book chapters. He coordinated, from 2007 to 2010, a research project funded by FAPESP within the TIDIA-Ae program (Electronic Learning on the Advanced Internet). From 2009 to 2015, he participated in the INCT-MACC Project (National Institute of Science and Technology - Medicine Assisted by Scientific Computing), approved in Public Notice No. 15/2008 of the MCT, CNPq, FNDCT, CAPES, FAPEMIG, FAPERJ and FAPESP. He participated in the e-Mundus project on open educational content, with the European Community. He coordinated the VIDA Odonto Project (virtual reality simulator for dental anesthesia training) funded by FAPESP and in partnership with the Faculty of Dentistry of USP Bauru (FOB-USP) and EACH USP (2017-2020). He coordinates the development of the VIDA Nursing environment (virtual reality simulator for blood collection training) in partnership with the USP Ribeirão Preto School of Nursing. He was editor of the scientific journal "Initiation" from 2013 to 2016 and member of committees of several journals and scientific events. Chair for Latin America of the Immersive Learning Research Network (ILRN), in the 2020, 2021 and 2022 editions. He participated in the panel of international experts that rose to the publication "State of XR & Immersive Learning 2021 Report". Collaborator and/or consultant in research and innovation in immersive technologies applied to education with startups. Fapesp referee in the Innovative Research in Small Businesses (PIPE) programs. Reviewer of several international journals, such as "BioMed Research", "IEEE Transactions on Learning Technologies", "Multimedia Tools & Applications", "Computer in Human Behaviour", among others. The most frequent terms in the context of its scientific, technological and artistic-cultural production are: Graphic Computing, Design, Virtual Reality, Multimedia, Hypermedia, Interactive Virtual Education, Education, Educational Technology, Distance Education and Computer games. Creator and curator of the blog "Education without Distance" (http://esemd.org).